Okay we are live with first installment of Udemy Weekly Inspiration for Success. I'm Marc Isaacson and I'm your host. you can find me on Udemy at https://www.udemy.com/u/marcisaacson.

I'm still relatively new to Udemy and I have certainly made my share of mistakes. I currently have three published courses. If you're interested in purchasing those courses at a discount, I'll put a coupon code here for you and you can choose to Redeem a coupon.

Before we get started I want to go over a few administrative tasks. If you've subscribed to the Blab then you'll get an email from Blab with a link to the replay. I'm also going to make all the replays available on my website which is marceisaacson.com. If you want to ask questions we are going to have a question and answer session at the end of the interview. You can post your questions at any time. To make it easier for us if you preceed your question with a forward slash it makes it easier to filter those questions later on.

You can feel free to ask questions as we are going through the interview but we will wait until the end to answer all of those questions. Once we open the Q&A session then I will open up a seat and you can grab a seat you and ask your questions directly.

I will be making sure that we keep the Blab to one hour or less. So that we can get to as many questions as possible, if you do decide to take a seat remember that there may be other people who would like to be able to take a seat as well.

While we are conducting the Blab it would be great if you could click that little, or rather big, tell a little bird button that lets people know we are on air.

As far as links that we post into the Blab today: even though the link text itself looks like it's normal, when you actually click the link there is a ?ref=blab appended. If you find that a link is not working when you use it just go to the address bar of your browser and strip out that ?ref=blab.

So with all of administrative stuff out of the way, now I'm really excited to have the chance to introduce my very first guest. She's got a great story to share with you. Teresa Greenway is an instructor of sourdough baking courses available on udemy.com. Teresa has been successful with courses that are not usually thought to be highly successful, like for instance the tech, business and entrepreneur courses. She has an online business called Northwest Sourdough, a four volume book called Discovering Sourdough and a YouTube channel. She also recently published her memoir titled Reach for Joy, in which she chronicles her escape from an abusive marriage. 

Welcome to the Blabcast Teresa. Tell us a little bit about yourself.

My name's Teresa Greenway and my passion is to teach people how to make sourdough. I've been making sourdough about eleven years now and I turned my passion into baking courses, books and videos. Five years ago I got out of a thirty-year abusive marriage and I found myself without the means to support myself. I didn't have a college degree I had no real work history except for  working part time in a bakery. I have two children to support still. So I began to look for ways where I could make an income at home and this eventually led me to becoming an instructor on Udemy in April of this year.

Great so you made your way to Udemy and you're teaching these sourdough baking courses. So is that what you decided to do right away on Udemy? You came with the idea that you were going to be teaching these classes?

Actually, no, the thought didn't occur to me initially. I was enrolled in a class online by Cheryl Bar that's aimed at women learn to make money. 
She encouraged me to do what I know and what I know is sourdough. So I started looking up online how I might make money other than my book which I have on
Amazon and I found some neat courses on how to optimize a YouTube channel, how to make a video course, how to work with audio, SEO. There were so many interesting courses on how to have a business and optimize it on the internet. Since one of my children is disabled I need to work at home. Having an online business is perfect for me. I began taking these courses last winter and early in the year. It suddenly clicked, "Why shouldn't I do a course?" So I began to take courses on how to do a good job on making video, including Udemy's official course on making a Udemy course and I published a course.

So you were taking classes on optimizing video and audio and on using YouTube. Why were you taking those classes? You said you didn't actually come to Udemy with the idea of teaching.

The first courses were from Alun Hill. I think most of us instructors have taken courses or at least one of them. He inspired me because I had YouTube channel with only 25 or 30 videos where I had taken bread making courses and I videotapep them and I did a few of my own and I was making maybe thirty cents a month. It wasn't anything that I thought could every support me. But, Alun inspired me that perhaps there was a way I could make money if I started optimizing my YouTube channel. Right away I saw an increase and within a short time I made maybe $100 a month and it was then I realized "you know this might take a while." I need to do something else. That's when I started thinking maybe I should make my own courses. I realized later that YouTube is great for some people; they can really make a lot of money. But I think for me YouTube is a great vehicle for showing my work, getting my students involved in sourdough and for redirecting them to my courses and books. It's a great vehicle for sales.

You mentioned a book and you mentioned you have been running a sourdough business for quite a number of years now. Tell me a little bit more about the sourdough business and your four-volume book as well.

About eleven years ago my oldest daughter decided she wanted to try to make real sourdough. She tried for a month. There was almost nothing available online and was pretty hard to even find books. There were some out there, but it was a difficult challenge to figure out how to make real sourdough. After a month she gave up and she said, "nobody can make real sourdough, mom, not even you can." I thought "Oh yeah?" I took up the challenge and it took me about three months. I found whatever I could online, which didn't look very promising. I worked at it and had no idea what I was doing. I bought Nancy Silverton's book that was based on her sourdough business in La Brea. That was my first break through and I continued working at it and I finally pulled a real sourdough loaf out of my oven that was all crackly and smelled awesome! I was completely hooked and had to bake sourdough. I was so happy about it and so excited that I started a web page and a Yahoo group, which is no longer in existence, and I tried to show other people how to bake sourdough. Since there was hardly anything out there I wanted to share what I learned. So that was the beginning of my business.

You had a web page and a business. What were you doing with that business? What type of stuff did you sell?

I made my own sourdough starter, which is really exciting when you make your own sourdough starter and it's bubbling away and it works and it actually makes bread. So I dried it and I sold sourdough starters and then people from around the world began sending me their starters. I still have a collection of about 11 or 12 starters from around the world. I began drying them and selling them. I also started selling baking equipment. But the thing that I enjoyed the most was teaching. People would ask me the same questions over and over. I finally decided "you know I need to write those questions down and I need to answer them and I need to put that somewhere." After five years it became a book that was four volumes and 400 pages. So instead of when people ask me the same questions I would say read the book. The retail side of the business became too difficult for me when my personal relationship deteriorated and so I stopped doing the retail but I tried to continue supporting people on my website and on my blog. That went away for a while as well but it's back full force now.

How long ago did you start your YouTube channel?

I would guess around eight or ten years ago.

Okay so you've had your YouTube channel for a while. You've had your website for about eleven years. And you've got your book on Amazon. You came to Udemy and started taking classes and eventually got this idea to create your own course and did it. What are some of the things that you encountered in creating this course and releasing it?

I'm living in a garage shop right now and I didn't think that I could even do it
because the background is so bad. I don't have a real kitchen and I felt intimidated by my surroundings. How could I make a video? I thought of these beautiful kitchens like you see on TV where people are doing there work. Then I thought, "why not?" If people don't like it they won't come and if they do they will. I decided to focus mostly my hands and the counter and made some videos. I didn't have a great camera and I didn't understand about audio and had to clean it up as do most instructors when they get started. It was a learning curve. I had to learn how to use software for editing the video and the audio. I had to learn how to be present. There were plenty of challenges but it was also a lot of fun. I really enjoyed it.

Good! Obviously you overcame those challenges because you are selling courses. Tell people some of the things that you've done that have worked and have led to your success with sales of your courses.

The sales of my courses have been absolutely astonishing to me. There was no way I ever imagined I would be this successful and make this much money. I started at $1000 the first month, which blew me away. I had no idea that I would make that much. My biggest month was over $5,000 and I average about $3000/month at this point. What led to my success was optimizing my YouTube channel, using cards and annotations, creating proper descriptions and proper SEO titles. My YouTube channel went from about 3000 subscribers to 6 - 7000. On my youtube channel I tell people to join my group Facebook group called Perfect Sourdough. My Facebook group exploded. I'm approaching 10,000 people now. Drawing people in from one channel directs them to other channels. As you optimize your channels you start becoming a magnet for people. Slowly but surely that's what I did. I put links, coupons and giveaways in my Facebook group. I did contests and I tried to make my group really exciting and it's growing at the rate of a hundred people every week or two weeks. I'm working on optimizing my website, which had fallen the way. It's a work in progress. I redid my blog and I updated it and I've been posting quite a bit more. I make my new YouTube videos and post those on my blog and then repost them in my groups. I try to make everything I do work together. I've got a free ebook on how to make sourdough starter and I put coupons in there. I create a big circle of linked things where everybody goes everywhere. I try to make it fun.

Obviously you're very busy. You're working hard at this. There's so many avenues that you're pursuing to "become a magnet", like you say. You're putting a lot of effort into it. How do you continue to keep putting that much energy and effort into these classes? What drive you?

I call it confetti marketing because it's just like little bits and pieces of everything that I can think of. Anything new that I learn about I try to add on. I continue to take courses on Udemy. It's an awesome resource for learning. But what drives me is my goal and my dream to get into a real home. I want a beautiful kitchen where I can make my new courses. So besides the basic fact of needing to support myself and my children my dream keeps me driven. I enjoy it as well. I enjoy sales,  I enjoy teaching people and I think the thing I love the most is when a student who's never baked before pulls their first loaf of bread out of their oven and get so excited like I did when I got my first loaf and they say, "Oh my gosh look what I created!" That's my favorite part.

Cool! So your classes actually work then. They can actually follow your instructions and when they take your class they can actually produce sourdough bread.

As a matter of fact not only do they seem to work really well but the students get so excited that they go out there and tell everyone else and so they are also, without me intending part of my marketing. I got a lot of word of mouth business.

Excellent! Very good. What plans do you have for future classes on Udemy? You've got three classes on Udemy right now.

I have a professional class, a classic breads class and I just did a sourdough 101 for beginners because some of the other courses I felt were a little too much for someone just starting out. The 101 class has just two loaves of bread and I take them through step by step. When they're done if they're not hooked, they didn't involve that much time. But they're usually hooked and they want to continue on and take the other classes.

Do you have plans to do more classes beyond the three? You said you've got this four-volume book which is 400 something pages. You've got a whole lot of material.

I have one in process now and I'm hoping to get it ready for the Black Friday sale. It's called "Old Fashioned Sourdough". In the other courses it's pretty much all bread. One of them has a couple of sourdough cakes. In this one I'm doing the old-timey sourdough like the 49ers did like the flapjacks and the waffles and the scones and the old-fashioned bread made in the skillet, and that sort of thing. I'm focusing on some old-fashioned sourdough type of breads.

Great! I think it's a really interesting story. I'm so happy for you to share with us. I'd like to touch on just a little bit more that we haven't really covered right now that also makes your story interesting because not only are you having success and Udemy with this class that people wouldn't typically think of the first thing to go to make money but you had to come from a background that handicapped you. It didn't set you up optimally for success. How did you how do that? You mentioned you created a website and a YouTube channel. You figured out how to make the sourdough bread. How were you able to teach yourself all that stuff and be able to succeed and thrive despite the less-than-optimal incubator?

What Marc is referring to is that I came from a thirty year abusive relationship and five years ago I fled and I pretty much was messed up and didn't know what to do with myself. I went into therapy for five years and was diagnosed with PTSD. It was very difficult for me. My mother was dying. She died at the end of April and we buried her in May. At the same time I just published my first course and I was working on my memoir which took me five years to write. It was just published in September. It's called "Reach for Joy." I'll leave a link if anybody wants
you to check it out. I did come from a challenging background and I didn't have
a degree to support myself and no real work history. As everyone in the USA is aware the job market is pretty tight right now. I didn't feel that I could compete. A brother-in-law offered to pay for me to go to college. But, with a disabled son at home I didn't feel that waiting four years and hitting the books was the right thing for us. I also had to go back and forth to take care of my mother. So I decided to do what I've always enjoyed doing and that is to be an entrepreneur. I sold cupcakes and I was 10 years old door-to-door. I've always been really happy being an entrepreneur. So basically that's where we started this out with me taking the class with Cheryl Bar; I'll leave a link for her as well. She was so inspirational to a woman in my condition at the time when I felt like I couldn't do anything. Little by little I regained my self-esteem and my self confidence and I went for it. I gave it all that I had and I'm still doing that. I think what's the best for me is that I just love it. It's not like I'm doing it and I hate doing it. When I'm doing the videos and doing the courses, I'll put in 12 to 16 hours a day. I just love doing it. It's a passion. I love doing it. To be able to work and to earn money at something you love doing I think is everybody's dream.

Teresa has mentioned that she's got a son at home who is disabled that she needs to take care of right now and another child at home as well. She's given birth to ten total children, nine of whom are still alive. She's had quite an interesting set of experiences coming in to Udemy and she's really been able to use it as a platform to help her to support herself and to support her family and to just thrive and regain her self-esteem. I'm so glad that we had the chance to hear about Teresa's story.

We are going to open it up for question and answers right now. I'll look at some of the questions. Somebody asked how many tutorials you have sold on Udemy. You briefly touched on that based on your sales the first month and what you're averaging each month. Let me ask whether your sales are mostly your own promotions or Udemy organic.

It kind of goes back and forth. For a while I was doing like 97% of my own sales. My sales went down a bit and then Udemy organic picked up. Right now Udemy organic is about 50% of my sales. I don't have experience over years to know how that would go. But it seems to be a back and forth thing. I've been real happy with Udemy's sales.

Very good. You've got some of your own sales and some Udemy sales as well. I do believe you said that your YouTube channel is a pretty good resource to drive sales to your course. I think you also said that on YouTube you're telling people to join your Facebook group.

I do both. I've got discounted coupons sprinkled throughout the videos and I send them to everything else, including my website. Most people who are interested in that would love to show their own baking and so the Facebook group is perfect for that.

I'd like to just once again thank Teresa for being willing to be part of this inaugural Udemy Weekly inspiration for Success and I do hope you found her story inspiring. I certainly find it inspiring and I think it's a wonderful story of how a person can take the resources that she had available to her and make the most of them to  be able to do something that she loves. She's succeeding at something that she loves doing right now. And consider her background. Look at what she had to overcome to be able to reach this point.

Thank you, thank you, thank you, for being my first guest on this Blabcast and I wish you much continued success. I wish you all a good weekend. Thanks for stopping by!

Marc, I'd really like to thank you before we leave. I really appreciate this opportunity and I really enjoyed being here. Thank you very much.

You're very welcome. It was a pleasure talking to you.
